why it's almost impossible to track
everything when it comes to marketing
hey i'm sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host of the top 100
marketing podcast business growth show
so first and foremost i think measuring
and tracking your marketing is certainly
a good idea it's very very sensible so
if you're running any kind of campaign
whether that is seo
paid ads whether you're doing affiliate
marketing email marketing offline
traditional marketing if you can track
it in any way whether that is and google
analytics through to your website for
your kid click to calls for your inquiry
form fills if your direct sales whatever
it may be
justifying your marketing spend against
your return investment is always a smart
move but with that said
the buyer's journey the customer journey
is a fickle one what do i mean by that
well what i mean is if someone searches
you on google it doesn't mean they're
necessarily going to buy from you
straight away perhaps they've heard um
from you from word of mouth maybe
they've seen you on social media maybe
they look into researching your case
studies first and they eventually go to
your website so just because they've
seen an advertisement they've seen some
of your marketing doesn't necessarily
mean they're gonna buy on the same
channel that they first heard about you
on let's give you some working examples
of this so if we take seo search engine
optimization as a first example a
prospect could be searching for
services or case studies or examples or
useful resources on google and
constantly see you on page one let's
give you a quick idea of this so you
could be searching for
best ways to use a crm or best crm for
small businesses or something like that
and the prospect could constantly see
you on page one perhaps you're giving
useful tools infographics videos
resources so every time they search for
information around your sector you're
page one
so eventually they're ready and they've
got enough trust in you to do business
with you but instead of
using the google search they search for
your website directly
um so this means google seo gets no
credit for your search it goes down as a
direct inquiry or direct sale
here's a second example linkedin
linkedin we love here at webchoice i'm
using it all the time just like seo i'm
publishing content on linkedin most days
around websites seo and digital
marketing tips but to give you an
example
you could see someone on linkedin
publishing useful tips ideas each and
every day you could consume their
content for weeks months even years
until you trust them enough and you
eventually need their product or service
but instead of messaging them on
linkedin
perhaps you just go direct to their
website or perhaps even you search for
their site um you search for their
product from an intent channel so you
click through a google ad
and then you make an inquiry on their
website well that is not going down as a
attributed to linkedin that's getting
attributed to in this case paid search
because you click their google ad so the
company therefore attributes that uh a
paid ad click through whereas the person
actually heard about you on linkedin so
that's a second example
thirdly podcast so i'm a big lover of
podcasts with a business growth show and
i listen to a bunch of sales and
marketing ones so you could consume
podcasts for a long time just like with
linkedin content until you eventually
need perhaps the host or a guest's
product or service but instead of
going through the traditional means so
instead of perhaps
inquiring with them directly maybe you
just search about them on google you go
for a direct channel again perhaps you
click their ad and that tracking is all
getting attributed to a google ad
so it just shows you how fickle the
buyer's journey can be just because
you've consumed a certain part of
content
doesn't mean you're going to go direct
through that channel and analytics
google analytics and different tracking
platforms will attribute it to the
platform you've eventually inquired
through and this doesn't even include
word of mouth or referrals so we could
have consumed content from all these
channels or different channels that
we've not yet talked about and then
someone could refer you to that that
person that business
or you could hear about them through
content and eventually search their
website
so the point i'm getting to here is
tracking is certainly a smart idea i'm
not dissing tracking at all it makes
sense to understand the return on
investment but you're never going to
know 100
what each channel is bringing in because
a lot of these we've talked about are
building your brand they're building
your reputation for the long term so the
content you're pushing out on these
channels means that when someone's ready
to do business with you they might go to
a intent channel they might recommend
you to a friend that needs your service
or they might search for your website
directly or your landing page directly
meaning the channel that you pushed out
the content through isn't getting the
credit but you're still winning the
business you're building your brand and
this cannot always be tracked and there
you have it hopefully this has shared
some useful insights around tracking
when it comes to your marketing and
building a long-term brand for your
business with that if you enjoyed the
episode as always hit that subscribe
button i look forward to catching you on
the next one